# Hydrogen Atom
Quantum mechanics is undoubtedly one of the most succesfull theories to date. In addition to being the basis for understanding the structure, composition and interaction of matter, its applications are at the root of all the technological developments of this century and the last.  
There are a lot of examples in the history of science that demonstrated the need to develop a quantum theory. Indeed, some of the examples often cited were the need to understand: i) blackbody radiation, the fact that objects heated to certain temperatures only emitted discrete frequencies (colors) of light; ii) the photoelectric effect, the observation that electrons could be emitted ("kicked off") from the surface of metals when the surface was illuminated with light, but only when the frequency (energy) of the incoming light beam was equal to or greater than a certain treshold energy, characteristic of the metal; or iii) the stability and the discrete light absorption and emission spectrum of matter. All of these observations went against what was understood at the time. The body of physics knowledge of the time, that included Newtonian mechanics, electricity and magnetism and certain elements of optics, is typically referred to as classical mechanics. In classical mechanics, there were no explanations as to why matter exchanged energy with its surroundings in discrete chunks (quanta). In addition, from what was understood about electricity and magnetism, in addition to the knowledge that atoms constituted of a central positively charged nucleus, and electrons moving "around" this nucleus, it was unclear how atoms could be stable.  

In this series of posts, we will focus on the quantum mechanical developments that allowed us to gain an understanding on the stability, and the discrete light absorption and emission of atoms. We will do this by specifically focusing on the hydrogen atom. The hydrogen atom is indeed the simplest atom in that it only consists of one positively charged proton, which makes up its nucleus, and one negatively charge electron that occupies space outside that proton. The hydrogen atom is also the simplest many-body quantum mechanical system to study. It is indeed one of the only quantum systems which can be solved mathematically by hand (i.e. without the use of computers).
